[Music]
Hello everybody. Welcome to the
minimalist podcast where we discuss what
it means to live a meaningful life with
less. My name is Joshua Fields Milbour
and joining me here at Earththing
Studios in West Hollywood, California is
my good friend TK Coleman. Yo yo yo.
Today we're joined by Isaac Mohouse.
Isaac is the CEO of Open Ed, which is an
organization that is working to open up
all education options to all learners.
He is also the author of a brand new
book called Open Education. We've got a
lot to talk about today. We'll get to
our callers on page two. We have a bunch
of them, but since Isaac is here in the
studio, I thought we'd moved our more
about less segment from page three all
the way up here to page one because I
have a passage here that feels like the
perfect way to start this episode. As
always, you can listen to the full 2hour
maximal edition of this episode where we
answer three times as many questions on
Patreon. The link is in the description.
Big thanks to our patrons. Your support
keeps our podcast 100% advertisement
free because sing along at home, y'all.
Advertisements suck. And if you'd like
to have your question featured on our
show, give us a call. Our phone number
is 406-219-7839.
or you can email a voice recording to
podcast attheminimalists.com.
Now, let's dive into this free public
minimal episode. I have a passage here
that feels like the perfect way to start
this episode. All right, more about
less. Isaac, this is a segment that we
typically do on page three. It's a
article or a quote or a book, something
we read as a jumpoff point for
discussion. And what I have here in
front of me is from one of my favorite
philosophers,
thinkers. His name is Jed McKenna. And
the book is Jed Talks Volume 3. It's
part of a trilogy, although you don't
have to read the first two to get this.
And there's an essay in that book about
our broken education system. The essay
itself is called Over the Moon. And I
tweezed out three paragraphs that I
wanted to talk to you about. TK, take it
away. I sometimes wonder how things
might be different if all those
countless thousands of hours of life we
flush away in school were put to some
worthwhile use like actual exploration
and discovery and growth instead of
having our lovely little brains scooped
out and replaced with steaming piles of
dog crap. In a mature society, children
would be guided into their own
adulthood. But in our childish society,
the young are neutered, labbotomized,
and prepared for a life as herd members
bearing no resemblance to their
potential. The very idea of putting our
formative years to good and happy use is
so radical as to be practically
unthinkable. What if young people were
encouraged to explore and learn and
develop instead of being herded and
molded and homogenized?
Such a revolutionary act would undermine
the daycare component of the school
mission. Because a true education,
reading, writing, reckoning, would
require only a tiny fraction of the time
we spend in classrooms having our
curiosity smothered and our spirits
broken. Young people might put that time
to use for real learning instead of
being tucked out of sight like laral
hatchlings squirming in darkness. But
really, who cares about any of that? You
can't change what was done to you and
you probably can't do much for your own
kids. The only thing you might be able
to do is find your way back to where
those two roads diverged and go the
other way. Isaac, I wanted to start here
because we often go down a path a almost
society prescribed path whether it is
traditional public school or then it is
the college system. you go through
university and of course then I need an
advanced degree or maybe I need to
become Dr. Milbour someday. That way
I'll be sufficiently impressive to the
people around me and they'll be able to
pat me on the back or maybe even applaud
me for all of my so-called achievements.
And so we travel down this road and we
realize, oh, the happiness that was I
thought was the destination I was headed
to isn't here, but I've already gone so
far. So, you know what? I can't just
turn around. But often that is the only
thing to do. If I realize I was
traveling toward this place that isn't
where I wanted to go, why keep traveling
there? So I wanted to talk to you about
that, maybe the the system and what it
prescribes to us. But maybe we just
start by talking about um what can we do
about our broken systemically broken
education system.
>> Yeah. You know, I am so relentlessly
focused on what is within one's own
power to control that I I whenever
there's questions about like the system,
how should we improve the system? How
should we fix the system? I don't know.
But I can tell you some things that you
might be able to do in your own life or
for your own children. That's why I love
this quote until the very end when he
says, "You can't change what's done to
you and probably can't do much for your
own kids." Oh, no. You can absolutely
you can absolutely do a lot for your own
kids. That's the whole reason we wrote
this book. You can open your kids
education, even just a little bit. Even
just cracking that door just a little
bit more open so that you're not in, as
you said, it's kind of a conveyor belt.
This idea that you get on the conveyor
belt and then you let the system, you
let the inertia of the education system
do all the work for you, whether or not
you're thriving or flourishing or
learning, and you just kind of accept
that's what you have to do. You don't
have to do that. And especially now like
more than at any point in human history
really since co there's been this
explosion in not just ability to do
education differently with you know
different technologies that are
available but with an understanding
that there are that that different ways
are possible. One of my favorite
thinkers I know I'm meandering a little
bit but I'm coming around to it. One of
my favorite thinkers uh Ludri van Mises
he said that there's three preconditions
to any purposeful human action. You have
to have dissatisfaction with the status
quo. You have to have a belief in
something better. And you have to have
uh or sorry a vision of something better
and a belief in your ability to get
there. And that's anything from me like
I'm thirsty. I'm dissatisfied with the
status quo. I see a glass of water here
and I believe in my ability to pick it
up and drink it. Those are all
preconditions to taking that action.
Many many parents probably almost all
have had dissatisfaction with the
education status quo for quite a while.
Like I there's very few parents who are
like yes my kid I'm perfectly happy and
thrilled with everything about their
education experience but they didn't
have a vision of anything better or a
belief in the ability to get there.
COVID happened and all of these families
were stuck at home and they would do
like online version of their school
>> and that resulted in a few things. One
was they realized, wo what they're
actually doing and learning in school is
not that much. It's not that good.
>> Mhm.
>> And like if they didn't learn this,
nothing really that bad would happen.
And they also learned I kind of like
having my kids home more. I like having
them around. Especially the parents who
were able to work from home themselves
realized I don't that babysitter
component. A lot of parents realized
they didn't need it all day every day.
Maybe they want their kids to go
somewhere and be with other kids a
couple times a week, but they don't want
them out all the time. And the kids
don't like it. And they really they
started, oh, we started baking together.
We started doing things together. The
number of parents I talked to who are
like it was actually really magical
during co when my kids were home from
school and we were all together and they
had that experience and that suddenly
realized
wait a second all this heavy lifting
that I thought the conveyor belt
education system was doing wasn't doing
any of it cuz my kid didn't go for 3
months and they were fine they didn't
fall behind they were actually happier
than ever they learned in all kinds of
different ways like that has happened
and I think that's that moment is what
I'm trying to help capture and trying to
give people more of those moment moments
and those recognitions of like think
about the times when you were watching
your child learn and grow in a way that
was joyful for them and for you. You can
create more of those and they're not
going to like fall behind or have
something bad happen to them if you pull
them out of that conveyor belt.
>> DK, how did this passage resonate with
you? Oh, I loved it, man. Because I
think it highlights a very important
principle that guides my reasoning about
everything. And that is there are no
places in this world that are so sacred
that they couldn't become hiding places
from where you need to be. So the church
itself can be a hiding place from God if
you are called to be out on the streets
helping the poor. But outwardly it looks
very sacred and no one will question you
or assume that about you if you place
yourself inside those buildings. In a
similar way, school can be a place for
hiding. It can be a place where you hide
from education in a very socially
acceptable way. If you drop out of
school and you're spending your time at
the malls or in the movies or hanging
out on the street corner, everyone will
question what you do because you're
hanging out in spaces that just look
sketchy to all of us. But you can do
that in a school because a school is not
a substitute for a soul. A school can't
give you a mind, right? And so I think
this this essay sort of challenges this
tendency that we have to just shuffle
our kids into school. Use it to buy
time, use it to fit in, use it to tell
ourselves a sweet sounding story that
everything's going to be okay because
we're going to learn all the things we
need to learn to do all the things we
need to do. And I like what you had to
say about what happened with co many
people learned that a lot of the
arguments they were giving for why they
can't do it just weren't as powerful in
light of their new experiences and a lot
of the stories they were being told
about the ideals of what school
represents weren't being lived out in
the actual execution of it. And so you
know you can say all this stuff about
how it should be but how it actually is.
They were getting a better education at
their homes. And so when it comes to
that last quote, so I was thinking about
the first part of that where where he
talks about how you could, you know,
doing something for yourself. When these
kinds of discussions come up, I'm very
sensitive to the objection, but it
doesn't work for everybody, but
everybody can't do that. And my attitude
around that has changed over the years.
And one of the things I've learned to
say is, hey, that may be true for you. I
I honor your right to tell your story
however you need to tell it, but can you
do me a favor? If there's someone out
there who recognizes that this
possibility is there for them, can you
make sure that you don't get in their
way? Can you make sure that your story
about what you don't think is realistic
for everybody, not be the story that
hinders anybody from trying something
new? I think that's an important thing
to keep in mind on these topics.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I know in my own personal
experience, my daughter was super
anxious in public school when she was
there. We unschool her now and she does
have a place where she goes a couple
days a week to spend time with other
kids and and really that's almost like a
jump off point to develop those
relationships outside of that area as
well. So you have friends that you go to
the pool with or you go on hikes with or
you go riding horses with or you go to
their home or their sleepovers. all of
these different things that a young girl
who's 12 and her friends tend to do. And
so, yes, the socialization
aspect is one thing that we often bring
up about this is the best thing about
public schooling. Is that the best thing
about public schooling, Isaac?
>> I mean, what do you mean by
socialization? Like think about an
environment where you are restricted to
being only with people of your exact age
regardless of interest, ability,
differences mentally, emotionally,
physically, only people that are your
exact age. And every 50 minutes a timer
goes off and whatever activity you're
doing, no matter how engaged or
disengaged you are, you stop doing it
then and go on to the next activity.
Think about what is the what are the
opportunities for socialization in a
system like that. Like I mean we see it
we see
>> public school is is the only place that
most people have ever witnessed physical
violence in their life. Like for most of
us that's not a normal part of daily
work and life. But almost all of us saw
it if we went to school at least once,
right? That's that's the kind of
environment like you could say you know
the best thing about prison is the
socialization
and and that is there is a type of
socialization that happens there right
so like when you think about the the
incentives and the the things you are
being conditioned to because real
learning the majority of what we learn
comes from observing patterns around us
what kind of things get rewarded and
what kind of things get disincentivized
or punished it doesn't have to overt
punishment, but just social social
disapprobation, etc. When you look at
what school is, it's really a like 12
year apprenticeship for being a teacher.
That's it. Cuz the only career you
learn, you learn how teachers do their
job and how they create the world that
they inhabit. That's it. You don't learn
any other kind of career. So, if you're
going to be a teacher, that's that's a
great good way to learn how to be a
teacher. If you're gonna be anything
else, it's it's terrible because all the
things that are incentivized and
rewarded are things that matter to
teachers and nothing else. So like and
and the social structure takes that on.
So when you when you think about your
kids having socialization, I like to
think like horizontal and vertical,
right? And people say this about
college, too. It's great for networking.
Horizontally, yes. You meet a bunch of
people your same age and stage in life,
and that's a horizontal network. a
vertical network. And you see this with
homeschoolers all the time. They are so
comfortable talking with every age
group. They will hang out with kids two
years younger than them, which is
horribly embarrassing if you go to
public school or 10 years younger than
them. They will hang out with adults and
they can kick it with a group of uh
their parents' friends and have good
conversations. That's called being
human, right? Like that's what all
humans have done for most of human
history. But this really narrow since
the early 1900s
factory school system has age segregated
people so much that they are only
comfortable in these high pressure
cooker social status game situations of
peers of their exact same age that
they're always competing with to see
who's top dog. Like you can call that
socialization if you want. It's not the
kind that I want for my kids. You know,
one interesting thing about
socialization too is that we tend not to
question things that just show up as the
way it is. But when it comes to this um
you know, the horizontal networking
component you talked about in the age
segregation, it's a historical anomaly.
For the overwhelming majority of human
history, we simply have not done life in
this way. And and we've only had a
relatively small amount of time to
experiment with this way of doing things
and the effects that it has on our
consciousness. And so this isn't some
kind of unquestionable way of
socializing and this isn't a radical
idea. This is a call to consider the way
human beings have evolved throughout
history. It reminds me of when we did
our Sunday symposium and we were talking
about social media and digital clutter.
And someone said, "I understand taking a
break, but don't you think you have a
moral responsibility to have an impact?"
And I I I I wish Josh was there because
he would have questioned the moral
responsibility to have an impact. I
accepted that primise and I said yes,
but I questioned this very very recent
notion that impact is best measured in
terms of the number of people that you
reach. How are you reaching them? Just
because I go from a million likes to a
billion likes doesn't mean my influence
is getting better, you know? And so I
think there are certain things we just
take as obvious in our generation. But
when you look at history, you read books
that were written before you were born,
you say, "This is a very strange thing."
And and I think part of this is due to
what I call the deification of
discomfort. We base a lot of opinions on
looking at other people's lives and
saying, "Hm, that makes me feel
uncomfortable. I'm very concerned." And
you see this happen to homeschooled
children a lot. Someone who wasn't
homeschooling up all the time.
>> Yeah. They look at your life and you
just seem weird to them. Right. Now, the
existence of a concern is not evidence
of a discrepancy. But when I look at
someone else's life and they seem weird
to me and I feel concerned, it's easy to
project that internal subjective
experience into a real problem that
needs to be solved. And it could just be
no, you're uncomfortable with something.
That person's doing well. They're happy
with their lives. And so when we deify
our discomfort, we say, well, we need to
do something about this. So, we we need
to properly socialize this child without
ever thinking about the fact that maybe
I'm the one who could benefit from some
proper socialization. Maybe this child
is growing up in an environment that's
not just consistent with how human
beings have done it throughout history,
but that's preparing them for a life
where they're not going to have that one
to two years of depression when they're
not living around somebody that's their
age, where they're not uncomfortable
with having friends that are 10 years
older and 10 years younger than them.
Yeah, I do find that point to be really
interesting because where my daughter is
unschooled a couple days a week, she's
12, but she could be next to a
16-year-old and a 16-year-old. And you
realize that public school system, the
public school system is the only time
that you're sort of segregated into
these groups. I can imagine back in my
corporate days when I was turning 28.
They didn't go sit me with all the other
28-year-olds at the time and say, "All
right, here's what here's the cubicle
farm where all of the 28-year-olds sit."
Although I now realize we're kind of
doing that here in the studio. The
millennials on the couch, the Gen Xers
are at the desk and the Gen Z guys on
the board over here. So that's
accidental. Um but but by and large has
nothing to do with their age, right? And
it has much more to do with their
interests and their competencies. I
think this is a great entree for this.
Actually, it's a great appetizer for
this episode. We have so many callers I
want to get to in a moment. But before
we get to those callers, I think it's
time for the lightning round. This is
where we answer the Patreon community
chats question of the week. We attempt
to answer these questions with a short
sharable minimal maxim we call them.
It's a little piffy apherism. Now, don't
worry. We prepared our aferisms many
weeks in advance, Isaac. So, you don't
have to be py on the fly. Although, if
you have something that's great. By the
way, you can find this episode's maxims
over at minimalmaxims.com. You can find
every minimal maxim ever there. You can
also find the show notes over at
theminimalists.com, which is where you
can sign up for our email newsletter.
We'll deliver those minimal maxims to
your inbox every Monday for free. The
question of the week this week is, what
is the worst education advice you've
ever heard? What is the worst education
advice you've ever heard? Now, before we
get to our piffy answers, let's see what
some of our listeners had to say. Kyle
said, "The worst education advice is
public school is for everyone."
Wow. I I mean, I don't know that I've
heard that as advice, but I think that's
almost like the implicit advice of of
the system is it is available to
everyone at least. What do you what do
you think about that advice? Yeah, you
you can you can tease out these uh
implicit sort of things that people uh
don't have to say without saying by
figuring out what you get questioned for
doing. If you pull your kid out of
school, people will ask you why. And you
kind of feel this need to give a
justification to yourself and to others.
If you just send your kid to public
school, no one will ask you to justify
that.
>> So you can tell that's the implicit
advice of society is to just enroll. And
is that if you are a part of any group
that is the majority outside of like
Republican, Democrat politics, you set
that aside for a moment, but outside of
that, it seems that if you're part of a
a group that is a majority or super
majority, it's just going to be taken
for granted that you're doing the quote
unquote right thing. Isaac, you have
four kids. Is that right? Yeah. 8 to 20.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Have any of them gone to public
school?
>> Yes. Uh the oldest went to public school
twice. Once for like
>> like two days in a row,
>> once for like three months and then we
moved. And then he went for uh about
half of a school year when we moved. And
he wanted to run on the track team and
he went he was like 16. Often this
happens with homeschoolers. They get to
a certain age in their teens and they're
like, I think I might want to go to
school. And so I sat down and we got a
got a whiteboard out and I was like, all
right, what do you want? And he's like,
I want to be able to make money. I want
to be able to spend time with friends. I
mean, he's listed all the things he
wants. And then I listed like, you know,
homeschool, unschool, private school,
public school, and we kind of went down
and like where do you get the most of
what you want?
>> And he decided for that semester he was
going to do public school.
>> And so he did it. And um he liked it,
okay, but at the end of it, he was like,
eh, I'm just going to drop out and go
work. So he just worked full-time. And
like he doesn't I don't have a high
school diploma either, but he doesn't
have a high school diploma or anything.
He just did, you know, what he he
learned from lots of jobs and things
like that. But but that was important
for my wife and I cuz I've spent most of
my career like just ripping on
mainstream education and, you know, the
conveyor belt mentality. And people used
to ask me when I launched practice, the
the college alternative, well, are your
kids going to go to college? I would be
like, I don't know. It's up to them, not
me. Like my hope is that by the time
they're that age,
>> they don't need me making decisions for
them.
>> Yeah. And if they have a sufficiently
compelling reason to go to college.
>> Exactly. Exactly.
>> And it's not a knee-jerk reaction of,
"Oh, yeah. This is where the conveyor
belt has taken me." I found when I
pulled my daughter out of public school
in first grade, cuz she was having
really bad anxiety attacks there.
Stomach was hurting every day. She was
like, and it was trying to figure out,
okay, how do we want to spend these
hours? When she was 10, she started her
first business. It's a dog walking
business. It's called Paul's. Pretty
awesome walking service. and she's made
thousands of dollars as a 10, 11, 12
year old now um walking dogs at $5 a
pop, but I feel like it's a job she
would do for free anyway. Quite often
she's like babysitting people's dogs,
dog sitting at someone's house and she
just gets to play with their dog for 5
hours and they give her money to play
with the dogs and then she's done. And
that is has been an education in and of
itself because she's learning at least
the fundaments of of starting a
business. So, let me get back to some of
these listeners, though. Jackie said,
"The worst education advice I ever
received was, borrow as much as you can
for student loans."
Nope. What a nightmare after graduation.
I had no idea what I was getting myself
into. What are we getting ourselves into
with these student loans, TK?
An illusion. You know, if you were to go
to a bank and and and pull out your
business plan, it can be very well
written. you can have a viable model and
say, "Hey, I want to take out a loan."
And you're 18, you're 19, you haven't
proven yourself, they're gonna say, "No,
we're not giving you any money. We don't
trust you." And none of us would bulk at
that. We would say, "Yeah, this is an
18year-old. They haven't proven
themselves." And but but what what what
if what if they promise that for the
next four or five years they're going to
work work really hard and mom and dad's
going to hold them accountable? The bank
isn't giving you a loan. And that is the
truth. I often say, don't just pay
attention to what people advise. Pay
attention to what they admire because
that's where they reveal the truth. The
advice they give you is a reflection of
a few different things. What they want
to be held responsible for, what they
think you can handle, what they're
willing to, you know, have revealed
about them later on if this doesn't go
right. There are a whole bunch of
factors involved when people give you
advice. So, you got to be careful about
the advice. What do you admire when
you're not looking? When an audience
isn't watching, what fires you up? what
makes you respect people. And when banks
give away money, when they give loans,
they look for evidence of credibility,
evidence of work ethic. They look for
evidence of experience. But when it
comes to giving you loans for school,
they're giving it to you because they
trust that they're going to get it back
because even if you don't pay them back,
somebody else is going to take care of
them. And so, you're buying into this
illusion of it being an investment. Not
that it can't be an investment, but
you're buying into the illusion that it
is an investment just because somebody's
giving you money and telling you a
story. But you will discover that it's
not an investment at all if you're not
able to turn that into value creation.
And you can tell yourself a story about
it's not about the money, but they won't
buy that story when they send you the
bill. That's the story that they tell
you, but you'll never be able to sell
them.
>> Isaac, any other thoughts on money in
education?
>> Oh man, this this college question I
could go off on for a really long time.
No, I think just learning to step back
and assess these things as they actually
are instead of bringing in all of the
preconceived cultural narrative around
them with you. So, to TK's point, if you
assess this like any other loan or
investment, oh, okay, you want $80,000,
$100,000, what do you plan to do with
it? What's the what's the payback time
period? How long will it take you to
earn that compared to what? Right?
compared to the other alternatives, how
long will it take you? Cuz if you just
say in a vacuum, I can go to college and
I can get a job, could you have gotten
that job without a degree? When you ask
that question, cuz people will say,
well, I need the degree cuz I need the
job and the job and I need a higher
paying job. Degrees get higher paying
jobs. Therefore, I need to go get a
degree. It's worth it. That is true on
average though, right?
>> Totally true on average. But if you ask
what job are you trying to get and could
you get that job any other way, people
don't know the answer to either
question. Yeah. So, why would you go
take out a loan to get a job that you
don't even you don't know what it is and
you don't know if it requires a degree?
And the thing is, with the rare
exception of jobs that legally require a
degree, like lawyer, doctor, public
accountant,
the vast majority of jobs, even when
they say on the job posting, degree
required, they don't mean it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it is true that I
don't want to go to a dentist who
learned how to his to do dentistry on
YouTube. I would go to one who learned
by being an apprentice to a dentist who
did a thousand procedures and helped
with them over one who studied it for
four years.
>> Sure.
>> I I definitely would like if you can
prove to me of we don't need to get into
occupational licensing and all that
stuff but like there there is a role for
expertise for sure and if college is one
of the ways to get that expertise or the
best way set that aside. There are areas
where the you know legal things require
you to get a degree fine but for the
vast majority young people just don't
even know they I mean I've heard people
we used to get this with practice all
the time well that job said degree
required so they they don't apply and I
would say well the person who posted
that job posting what do you think they
mean by that why do they do they say
degree required what are they actually
looking for exactly they're using it as
a proxy
>> because most people who post job
postings don't post job postings all day
for a living and they haven't thought
deeply about how to find the actual
thing they want that you if you've ever
looked for a house, you know this. You
make your list of your 10 things you
want when you buy a house and then you
go start looking at actual houses. You
will never end up buying a house that
checks all 10 boxes. You you'll buy one
that checks six of them and then it has
two other things you didn't even know
you wanted. Right?
>> That's how it works with jobs, too. So,
if you can signal your value in a way
that is more powerful than a degree,
which is a very low bar. Like the minute
you send a one minute pitch video, you
have signaled something that is more
valuable than a degree. That's how low
the bar is.
>> But this isn't just like theoretical
opinions. This isn't just like, hey,
it's kind of how I see the world
working. This is the kind of work that
we did together for about six or seven
years. Thousand of people get jobs that
said degree required without a degree,
>> right? In fact, in fact, everyone who's
working in this room right now was hired
here. We work together, not because of a
degree. I never checked a degree. I
don't even know if they have high school
diplomas, and nor do I care. I tried to
drop out of high school, but my guidance
counselor wouldn't let me. It's a funny
story. Um, which I didn't realize.
They're like, "Nope, it's the prison
analogy again." But Savvy D sent a
2-minute video in, and we were impressed
by it. We had a sit down conversation
with him. Jordan edited a podcast years
ago. This back in 2017, 2018, somewhere
in there, and edited a podcast for us.
And we're like, he did the best work out
of the 50 people who applied for this
role. Jordan was hands down the best at
that role. And Professor Sean, I've
known him since he was, I think, 19
years old. And he was always a super
talented writer. And I call him
Professor even though he's not a he
helps teach a writing class with me,
which by the way, I think launches this
week if you're listening to this right
now, how to write better.org. uh teach a
writing class once a year and uh he
helps me out with with that class as
well. Even though he doesn't have a
formal degree to teach writing, he's one
of the best writers I know. Even if he
doesn't have a piece of paper, well, he
has a lot of pieces of paper to prove
it. He has published, I think, eight
novels at this point. So, he doesn't
have the one piece of paper, he has many
pieces of paper that prove he's highly
competent at what he does. And however,
I do think that yes, if you're an
employer and you're trying to hire a
bunch of people quickly, maybe that is
one filter that does help them. But as
you said, there are often ways around
that filter if you can simply prove that
you can add value. One last thing I'll
say about about the money side of this.
As the minimalist, we're often talking
about buying something and asking
questions to be more intentional about
the purchases. you go to Macy's down the
street and you want to buy a pair of
pants, we have a list of five questions
you ask yourself before buying. I'll put
a link to that in the show notes. And uh
in fact, you can download it as a
wallpaper and put it on your phone just
so you're asking some of those
questions. One of those questions is,
can I afford it? And obviously, if you
have to take out a loan, you can't
afford a thing by definition. If you
have to finance a thing, you can't
afford it. And that is not a knock on
anything. I have a mortgage on my house.
That means I couldn't afford to pay the
full amount of money for that house. So,
I had to finance it. Now, a mortgage is
the only thing I will finance. I'm not
going to finance a car. I'm certainly
not going to finance a shirt. And there
are ways if you want to go a traditional
college route. Um, Anthony O'Neal has a
book about this debt-free degree. You
can still get a college degree and not
go into five or six figures worth of
debt and penalize your future self for
years or decades to come by simply being
more intentional about the way that
you're spending that money, the school
you're choosing. The other question I
ask though is, is this the best use of
this money? Because if I'm going down to
Macy's to spend $150 on these jeans,
okay, I don't have a problem with that.
But what if my rents do due and I don't
have I can't afford both. Uh-oh. Well,
now I have a decision to make. Yes,
maybe strictly speaking, I can't afford
these jeans. I have the $150 in my hand,
but if I buy these now, I can't afford
my rent. This is not the best use of
that money. And I think quite often when
you sit down, you say, "Okay, if I had
$80,000 in the bank right now. If I had
$310,000 in the bank right now, would I
hand that over to this university
immediately in order to spend the next
several years getting my education here?
Karen said, "The worst education advice
is the teacher is always right."
No, that that's great. Uh I think uh
we've all seen probably some of those
things that go viral where it'll show a
a teacher correcting someone when they
actually had the right answer. You know,
I can't think off the top of my head a
specific one, but it's not the problem
isn't like teachers are great. Teaching
is great. There will always be a need
for teaching. Uh I think it's a a
wonderful skill in high demand. In fact,
I would argue any teacher who is a good
teacher is dramatically underelling
themselves by staying in the public
school system. And we've seen that with
the explosion of micro schools. A lot of
teachers have left and been like, I
could teach 10 kids for like five grand
each and make 50 grand a year with just
teaching 10 kids in a micro school
however I want uh and make more than my
entry level. Um, so it's not a knock on
teachers. It's not about needing to know
everything. It's not like, oh, the
teacher's wrong. Gotcha. It's the way
the system is set up that bakes in that
there is a right and a wrong answer and
that the teacher is the final arbiter of
that. And and they ha there has to be as
long as you have testing. And if you
don't have testing, how are you going to
decide if this government money is being
spent well? And you you see the cascade
of effects where like you understand how
this emerges, but you put teachers in a
position where they kind of have to
always be right in their classroom. Not
just about behavioral issues, but it's
like, well, I have to get a grade and I
want my grade to be good. So, how do I
get a good grade? And the teacher, it's
up to them to tell you this is how you
get a good grade. There is one way. And
it's like, well, I I wouldn't want to be
in that position as a as a teacher,
right? Like, I'd much more have a more
Socratic approach and like, hey, there's
lots of different ways to do this.
Doesn't mean there's not feedback. This
can be done better and worse. There are
some things that are binary, like
arithmetic has correct answers and
incorrect answers, but so many things
don't. And I think the incentive
structure of the system is more to blame
than the teachers themselves. And by the
way, it's easy to underestimate just how
quickly you can fall into a position of
of supporting this way of thinking even
though you don't wish to support it. So
when you're in leadership,
you can underestimate just how much
people who are are already conditioned
to have so much respect for you that
they never challenge you. And so even if
you're the kind of teacher that says
like, "Hey, ask me anything. If you
disagree, there's space to express that.
Let's talk about it. If something
doesn't make sense, you might have to
say that every day several times before
your students even start to consider
that as a possibility because they've
had so much conditioning that might make
them think, "No, that's not true. You're
setting me up. You're tricking me. I'm
going to get punished. This isn't going
to go well." And they may come from a
home that's constantly reinforcing that.
So, it's not about teachers walking in a
classroom being like, "I'm always
right." It's about just underestimating
where our students already are and like
needing to do the hard work of
cultivating that capacity to question.
That over the moon essay you were
reading earlier from Jed McKenna. It
actually starts with young Jed, like I
think 6 years old, and he's basically
interrogating the teacher about gravity
and like, well, why does this work? And
how does the the moon pulls the tide? He
goes, well, how how come I'm not lighter
at certain times of the moon phase? And
he starts asking these questions that a
curious kid is. He was genuinely
curious. He wanted to know. And he said,
"Maybe these were stupid questions, but
show me why they're stupid questions at
least." And eventually the teacher kicks
him out of the classroom. I had a
similar thing happen to me in elementary
school. And it stuck with me to this
day. We were looking at shapes. And it
was like, "Which one's a square? Which
one's a triangle? Which one's a a
rectangle? Which one's a circle?" And I
wrote down that none of them were a
square. And there the teacher, she said,
"Well, no, that's wrong. This one is a
square." And I said, "Well, no, it's 2
in x 2 and 1/8 in. That's a rectangle."
And I'm like 8 years or Yeah. I'm not
even eight. I'm maybe 7 years old,
right?
>> So, you were born a perfectionist.
>> Well, OCD, basically. And she got so
frustrated. She's like, "Well, it's just
wrong. That one's a square." And I'm
like, "But it's not a square."
And so, yes, the teacher is not always
right. Luciana said, "The worst
education advice I've ever heard was
that I absolutely needed to go to
college right out of high school, even
if I had no idea what I wanted to do." I
think that's maybe the doubly dangerous
thing because yes, if you know at age 18
I want to become a dentist and I know
that in this country in order to become
a dentist, I need to get that degree or
I want to become an accountant and
that's something I'm passionate about.
Our accountant at the minimalist is
super passionate about his accounting
business. I don't understand that
personally, but I'm glad that someone
like that found that path and to be an
accountant, yes, you do have to to have
a particular piece of paper that says
I'm an accountant, right? And so, I get
that. But if I don't know what I'm going
to do and then I'm going to go get
$100,000 in loans or $50,000 in loans to
do something that I don't know what I
want to do, that could be a problem. And
yes, there are success stories where I
tried these things out. And yes, uh
that's where I ended up meeting Mark
Zuckerberg and that's why I got in as an
early investor in Facebook and that's
why I'm a billionaire now, right? Um
there are there are those stories, but
for every one of those confirming
stories, there are tens of thousands of
stories where I wasted time, money,
energy, or attention.
>> And real quick on that, it's to to back
to your point about asking the questions
about buying the jeans. This is not
about don't go to college or don't go to
public school. That is not what I'm
saying. It is know the reason for the
things you are doing. And so many young
people when I meet them and they're
like, well, I'm going to go to college
cuz I want to be a lawyer. I'm like, do
you want to be a lawyer? Oh, I think so.
I'm good at arguing and debating. And
people told me I should be a lawyer.
Because they all imagine themselves in
the courtroom. And I always say this,
take one year, even just one summer,
whatever that career is you think you
want, go shadow that person for for a
year or a summer. And I I had a young
person say, "I'm so glad you told me
that because I went to a law firm and I
said, "I want a shadow. I'll just do a
free unpaid internship." And I realized
all they do is like divorce paperwork
all day. Now, there's different kinds of
lawyers, but he's like, "I saw, oh, I
don't want this at all." Yeah.
>> Like, so just go make sure you know why.
And you can take a year and be
deliberate and intentional about getting
more information. You've been sheltered
from the world for 12 years in these
classrooms that are completely separated
from the world of commerce and then
you're expected to to pick a job having
seen only one job, the job of teacher be
actually performed. So go take a year
and go be around the types of things you
think you want to do.
>> Isaac, I'd love to hear from you about
what is the worst education advice
you've ever heard because we have a
bunch of questions coming up on page
two. We're going to bring you into our
world of minimalism and a bunch of
different non-education questions. But
before we we exit the lightning round,
I'd love to know from you. What is the
worst education advice you've heard over
the years?
>> So, I was uh let's try to think, 15, and
I had I had homeschooled all the way.
And then when I was 14, um I wanted to
go to this private school that a bunch
of my friends had gone to, mostly
because they had a better basketball
team than the homeschool basketball
team, and I wanted to go to go work with
this coach. Um so, I went to this
private school for a year, and I enjoyed
it. I had a good time, but I I kind of
felt very constrained by the rigid
schedule. I always liked to work and
make money and it made it harder for me
to have the flexibility I wanted. So, at
the end of one year, I decided I was
going to drop out and I was going to go
to community college and uh so I could
work 3 days a week, go to community
college 2 days a week for my last two
years of high school. To me, this just
seemed really normal. And I told one of
the teachers there who I really liked.
He was always really nice to me and I
learned a lot from him. and he was like
furious and he's like, "You have no idea
what you're doing. You're just a child.
You're just a boy. You can't go to
college." I'm like, "Well, it's Kamazoo
Valley Community College. It's not
really, you know, doesn't really count."
Um, but he legitimately was like had
this idea that there are these stages in
life and I'm not ready for the like
great manly journey of community
college. And I just I never forget and I
don't hold bitterness against this guy,
but like I was so shocked by that. I'm
like all this time I thought you were my
guy. I thought you had my back. He had
given me some fun opportunities during
the school year. But I realized in that
moment he was thinking about he wanted
me to come back and do my next two years
there because he liked having me there.
I was a part of different things that he
was doing. And it was like, oh, people
who want to be your mentor
sometimes cannot see beyond their vision
of your future. And I'm like, if you
really knew me, you would know this is
exactly the right thing for me. But like
I I just remember having that moment and
and ever since then, I've never liked
mentors. So,
>> how about you listeners? What's the
worst education advice you've ever
heard? Let us know your thoughts in the
Patreon community chat, which by the
way, you can join for free even if you
don't subscribe to our private podcast.
Okay, give me something py TK. What's
the worst education advice you've ever
heard?
>> They told me curiosity was a
distraction. Turns out it was the whole
point.
>> That's pathy.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh my gosh. I was supposed to be py like
that. I just rambled.
>> Tell tell him about me. Am I ever py on
this thing? No. Go ahead and ramble.
You know, I I I think a a parent's job
is to create a space where their child
can explore their curiosities in a way
that's safe. Something that I am so
grateful for my parents is that they did
two things. Number one, they kept things
out of the house that they believe would
lead me to harm myself. Number two, they
filled the house with everything
imaginable within those boundaries. And
so I remember talking with this kid. I
brought a comic book to school because
when we finished our work early, we
could read a book. And I pulled out my
comic book and he says, "My mom doesn't
let me read those." And I go, "Why not?"
And he says, "Well, she says they're
dummy books." And I was like, "Man,
that's too bad for you." Because it was
through comic books that I developed a
love for reading. And my parents never
told me things like that. They told me
that if I was interested in something,
that would be the stuff that I would
remember, that I would retain without
even having to work for it. And so I
think if you get too preoccupied with
looking at your curiosity as a
distraction and trying to consume things
that you think will make you sound smart
to other people, that's about as a good
of a strategy as getting fit by saying,
"I'm going to make sure that every time
I show up to the gym, I look like the
guy who's in shape." You're moving in
the opposite direction of being fit. You
want to be fit, you got to be willing to
look like you're not in shape and tell
the truth so that you can get better.
You want to be smart, be willing to look
like the person who isn't smart by
asking the questions that just burn
inside you that make you want to stay up
all night cuz everything you need to
know is going to be like connected to
all the stuff that you want to know.
>> I think the same thing could be said for
happiness, you know, in terms of like
trying to look like you're living the
happy life that is ideal to other
people. This is what my life is supposed
to be in their eyes and then if I if I
live up to their expectation of me, then
I will be happy. Which brings me to my
piffy answer here, which is happiness is
not the result of getting everything you
want.
>> And I think quite often we seek out a
college degree because getting that is
going to make us happy. But maybe it's
not the degree it's going to make me
happy, it's the job that's going to make
me happy or it is the income that is
going to make me happy. And you get to a
point where I was at age 30 where I had
everything I ever wanted. And if you
would have went back and told my
18-year-old self all of the so-called
accomplishments, he would have said,
"Wow, you must be so happy." And I would
have said, "No, man. I'm I'm miserable.
I'm trying to find the exit ramp from
this lifestyle. I got everything I ever
wanted." And it turns out that
everything I ever wanted isn't actually
what I wanted. I wanted happiness, but
happiness was not the destination. It's
the byproduct of doing the things that I
enjoy. the satisfaction of that and
having some sort of sense of purpose in
doing what I'm doing. That's almost the
end of page one. We still have an entire
switchboard of callers to talk to. But
first, real quick for right here, right
now, here's one thing that's going on in
the life of the minimalists. This week,
this Wednesday, in fact, August 13th in
Philadelphia, we're doing a screening of
a new film I've been working on for two
years now with Dr. Paul Saladino. He was
just on the podcast a couple episodes
ago for episode 499. Uh the food or the
the documentary is called Food for
Humans. We've we interviewed a bunch of
really amazing experts and also just
some great people who were going through
this transformation of changing their
diet and lifestyle to remove all of the
junk. We called it food for humans.
Originally, I was going to call it
people food because we often talk about
how we we uh feed our pets sometimes.
people food, but it's always junk food
for them, but we're not feeding
ourselves people people food either.
We're not eating food for humans. We're
eating this processed junk quite often.
And so, it's uh well, anyway, we're
doing a small screening. By the time I
announce this, it'll sell out really
quickly. If you're anywhere in the
Philadelphia area, you'd like to check
it out, just head on over to food.ov
and you can get tickets to that event if
there are any still left. And then later
this year, we'll likely do a small
theatrical tour with that before we
release the film online. I'll keep you
posted on that. But if you're anywhere
near Philadelphia, FoodMov,
August 13th is the official world
premiere. This is an unfinished cut of
the film. We're actually looking for
feedback so we can incorporate it into
the final cut of the film. So the
director, Chris, will be there as well
and soliciting your feedback if you're
interested. Food.Mov. All right, much
more coming up. But first, here's an
insight from one of our listeners.
>> Hi, minimalists. I was recently
listening to the episode Small Things
and resonated with one of the listeners
who discussed how she's been able to
part with her books by renting them from
the library or rereading favorite ones.
I aligned with what TK said about his
rules with books since I have similar
ones. I enjoy reading. I prefer physical
books and have been having fun building
my library. That being said, I don't
like to spend a lot of money on books
and would prefer to rent from the
library instead of buying them for full
price. I started to keep a list on my
phone of titles I want. And when I go to
the thrift store or my local library
book sale, I'll look for them. I've been
able to find some great books this way.
One I even found at the thrift for a
couple dollars and I was still on my
libraries waiting list for it. The
delayed gratification has also helped me
appreciate them more when I do find
them. I also love gifting books. So, if
there's a book I have that I'm okay
parting with and have a friend who would
enjoy it, I gift it to them or sometimes
make up blind dates with a book to give
out to others. I have a lot of reader
friends, so this has worked out well so
far. I hope this helps someone. Thanks
for listening.
All right, that is the first 32% of
episode 501. We'll see you on Patreon
for the full maximal edition with Isaac
Mhouse, which includes answers to a
bunch more questions. questions like,
"How do I convince my family to stop
buying excess stuff for my kids?" "Is it
ever healthy to argue or fight in a
relationship?" "How do I teach my kids
to be generous?" Plus, a million more
questions and simple living segments
over on the Minimalist Private Podcast
on Patreon. When you subscribe, you can
listen to our private episodes on Apple
Podcast, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Plus, you'll gain access to
all of our podcast archives all the way
back to episode 01. And that is a full
decade of archives. Big thanks to Isaac
Mohouse for joining us today. His new
book is called Open Education. You can
find him at Isaac Mhouse on X and is
morehouse.com.
We'll put links to all of that in the
show notes as well. And that is our
minimal episode for today. A big thanks
to Earththing Studios for the recording
space. On behalf of Ryan, Nicodemus, TK
Coleman, postp production, Peter Spire,
Jeff and Dave, Jordan No more on the
couch, Professor Shawn next to him, and
Savvy D on the board, and the rest of
our team. My name is Joshua Fields
Milbour. If you leave here with just one
message, let it be this. Love people and
use things because the opposite never
works. Thanks for listening, y'all.
We'll see you next time. Peace.
Every little thing you think that you
need.
Every little thing that's just feeding
your greed. Oh, I bet that you'd be fine
without it.
Every